So I'm gonna do a demo of a walk through,
we're gonna create a project from scratch.
I already have Vue CLI installed, but
if you don't have Vue CLI installed,
you can do npm i -g which
is installing it globally,
@vue/cli.
And then to create a project,
I'll say vue create my-project.
And in the repo, the end state of
what we're building is in setup1.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna take
this previous example that we looked at
earlier, and kind of saw this store kinda
piece, and we're gonna refactor it.
And we're gonna put all of these
components into a Vue CLI app, so
you can see what the similarities and
differences are.
So if I go into my terminal and
I say vue create setup1,
then what will happen is Vue will,
my computer's a little bit slow here.
Usually it happens quite quickly, it will
offer you a bunch of different examples so
you can go through this one,
a simple one and default one.
And you can actually even create one and
name it.
I'm gonna manually select feature,
so you can see how this works.
So in this one you could say,
okay, I wanna use babel,
I wanna toggle these features,
I wanna use vuex or something like that.
If you wanted to use TypeScript,
you see how we're gonna do that.
If you wanted to add a router,
if you wanted to add CSS pre-processors,
you can read.
But [LAUGH] basically you're able
to toggle all of these pieces
with the spacebar and so
I'm gonna click Return.
And then I can decide between node-sass or
dart-sass, I typically use node-sass.
I like to use package-json.
It's really whatever you like, and
I mentioned before that you could save
the preset that you just created for
future projects if you wanna name it and
then it always is available.
So then I can say, no I'm not interested
in making it for future projects,
it's going to start building this whole
thing for me, which is super nice.
By the way, you might notice
some sparkles in my terminal and
that's because I'm a major nerd and
I use a thing called, what is it called?
I forget the name of it, but
I will link it up in the readme and
it just makes terminal sparkles.
My husband told me that he thought
I would get sick of it, but
I have not gotten sick of it.
I've been using it for two years and
I still really like my sparkles.
Okay, so if you go back to this as
a reminder of what we were doing before,
we had this ScriptType x template,
which was the child and this is the app.
And this is okay, but what's not okay
about it or what's not ideal about
it is that it's not so clear what
things are and where they're going.
And also we're having to look back and
forth to different sections.
I'm looking at this app in this one place
and this component in a different place.
And so I have to kind of see,
kind of exchange that knowledge
a little bit differently.
So now it will tell me what I do
in order to go into the setup.
So I'll say cd setup1, and
then I'll say yarn serve,
little bit laggy on my keyboard,
I apologize for that.
So okay, if we're looking back at this,
back pop the original one,
what's good about it is that
we're able to use components.
But what could be better about it is,
now I'm looking in one place for
the parent, one place for the child.
It's a little confusing which one
of these is associated with which?
The app component is on that one and
then this state is to this one.
So it's not exactly, perfectly clear.
So what's really nice is when
we're working with an app,
we can use this process and
that Vue CLI will kick this all up for us.
Now if we wanted to look at what
kind of defaults it gives us,
so I'll like open a new tab,
and then I'll open up code.
And then VS code and then,
what we have is our setup.
Inside source,
we have some defaults that we have here.
So one thing that you might
notice is this App.vue component.
All of those single file components that I
mentioned will have the extension .vue and
we're gonna start off with this App.vue.
What's nice also about the CLI is it kind
of starts us off with a few component so
you can see where things live.
So we've got got that div id app,
we've got this HelloWorld component.
You can see we're importing HelloWorld
from components HelloWorld.
This name piece is not super important,
it works fine without that.
We have this components of HelloWorld.
And if we go into HelloWorld,
you can see all of those links
that we saw earlier on the page.
So if I go back to Chrome, You can see,
Welcome to Your Vue.js App and
all of those links.
So if we go back to Visual Studio Code for
a minute,
we have that App.vue with
the template that I mentioned.
The script that I mentioned,
and some default styles,
as well as all of these links here, and
the scripts and some default styles here.
So you can see how we would
start to encapsulate this and
also how all of it that you
need is just in that one area.
There's also a couple other things
I wanted to highlight here.
We're gonna talk about Vuex later today.
We did say in that CLI builds that we
wanted Vue CLI to give us a store and
some boilerplate.
So it gave us a store and
some boilerplate, it added in store and
index.js and so
we don't have to manually add that now.
If you're wondering how
all of this is mounted and
done cuz you saw it in those code pins
that we actually mounted to an app.
What it does is in main.js,
we've got import Vue,
import App, import store and
then we got the store is
passed in here and here.
And then we're rendering this h of App.
h in this case stands for HyperScript.
I have a long article that I'll link up
that explains why it's called HyperScript,
it's like, what is the h for in Vue?
I think you can google what is the h for
in Vue and
it explains all of those things.
The other thing is that when we build
all of these files, if you go in
the public folder, you'll see the
index.HTML that this is being built into.
And if you needed to add a font or other
links, you would do it in inside of here.
So that gives us access to if we
needed to call out to a link for
a global style or something.
And as we move into Nuxt,
we're going to talk a little bit more
about how we render this, because it's
done completely differently in Nuxt.
Nuxt is a meta framework so
it uses Vue under the hood, but
it is a framework on top of Vue.
It's like Vue's version of Next.
So React has Next, Vue has Nuxt.
I know that's very confusing.
We'll go over it a little
bit more in a minute.